page_content="Our teams remain focused on delivering performance through our comprehensive and flexible measurement capabilities along with insights that allow advertisers the ability to measure the return on their advertising spend and help them grow their business. In AWS, net sales were $21.4 billion in the first quarter, up 16% year over year and representing an annualized sales run rate of more than $85 billion. Given the ongoing economic uncertainty, customers of all sizes in all industries continue to look for cost savings across their businesses, similar to what you've seen us doing at Amazon. As expected, customers continue to evaluate ways to optimize their cloud spending in response to these tough economic conditions in the first quarter.\n\nAnd we are seeing these optimizations continue into the second quarter with April revenue growth rates about 500 basis points lower than what we saw in Q1. As a reminder, we're not trying to optimize for any one quarter or year. We're working to build customer relationships and a business that will outlast all of us. Therefore, our AWS sales and support teams continue to spend much of their time helping customers optimize their AWS spend so that they can better weather this uncertain economy." metadata={'source': 'data/Amazon.txt', 'company': 'Amazon.txt'}
page_content="The reality, by the way, is that most people are spending most of their time and money on the training. But as these models graduate to production, where they're in the apps, all the spend is going to be an inference. So, they both matter a lot. And if you look at -- we just released our second versions of both Trainium and Inferentia.\n\nAnd the combination of price and performance that you can get from those chips is pretty differentiated and very significant. So, we think that a lot of that machine learning training and inference will run on AWS. Then if you think about -- so you have to train the models, you have to run the inference, then you got to -- but you have to build the models. And if you look at the really significant leading large language models, they take many years to build and many billions of dollars to build.\n\nAnd there will be a small number of companies that want to invest that time and money, and we'll be one of them in Amazon. But most companies don't. And so, what most companies really want and what they tell AWS is that they'd like to use one of those foundational models and then have the ability to customize it for their own proprietary data and their own needs and customer experience. And they want to do it in a way where they don't leak their unique IP to the broader generalized model." metadata={'source': 'data/Amazon.txt', 'company': 'Amazon.txt'}
page_content="Price selection and convenience are at the core of that, very happy with the adoption and traffic and new customer acquisition that we're seeing from Prime Video in a lot of their emerging countries as well. So, good quarter. We'll continue to work again on cost structure and growing those businesses country by country. On the grocery part, what I would say is we continue to progress there.\n\nWe have an interesting grocery business where we've been in it for a while and we have actually quite a large grocery business. It's just an unusual selection grocery business, very much like how the mass merchandisers got into grocery 25, 30 years ago, where the selection are items that are not temperature-controlled, so it's canned goods and packaged food and paper products and pet supplies and personal care and health and beauty and all sorts of consumables. And interestingly, in this current environment where consumers are being cautious about what they spend and finding ways to trade down in different product variations, consumables have stayed very, very strong. And so, we continue to be very pleased with that part of our grocery business to serve a much broader number of the grocery shopping journeys, which we seek to try to help customers with." metadata={'source': 'data/Amazon.txt', 'company': 'Amazon.txt'}
page_content="And if you look at the experience that's been the case for the last several decades, we're going to have a hard time convincing our grandkids that it used to be the case to get a primary care appointment, you had to call ahead of time, a month ahead to schedule an appointment and drive 20 minutes to the doctor and park and get into the facility and wait 20 minutes in reception. And you get into an exam room, you wait 10 minutes for the doctor to come in. The doctor talks to you for five minutes and then prescribes you medicine where you drive 20 minutes to go get the medicine. And that experience just doesn't make sense and won't be the case.\n\nAnd so, we looked at -- we had some experience when we started experimenting with Amazon Care, and we couldn't believe how much people like the streamlined experience. And we ultimately decided we didn't have the right business model there. But we came across One Medical where the digital app is very compelling and you can talk to a medical practitioner by chat or by video conference, or if you have to come into a physical facility, they have clinics around the country and you can get that appointment same day or next day. In all those cities, they have relationships with health specialists, where you're plugged into." metadata={'source': 'data/Amazon.txt', 'company': 'Amazon.txt'}
