page_content="Andy Jassy -- Chief Executive Officer\n\nJust on your first question, Doug. It's hard to say exactly where we are in the process. I think that what we continue to see when we talk with customers is that they're appropriately cautious about what they're seeing in the economy. They're trying to find ways to save money as most companies are, including our own.\n\nAnd we have a long track record, which we continue to pursue, which I think makes sense for customers and for our business long term that we're not trying to optimize for a quarter or for a year. We're going to do whatever it takes to help customers be successful over a long period of time because we're trying to build relationships in a business that lasts all of us. And so, we're spending a lot of time with customers, trying to help them think of smart ways, not short-term ways, but smart ways to optimize their costs and to be able to scale up and down. And again, one of the big advantages of the cloud is that if you grow quickly, you can seamlessly scale up." metadata={'source': 'data/Amazon.txt', 'company': 'Amazon.txt'}
page_content="Price selection and convenience are at the core of that, very happy with the adoption and traffic and new customer acquisition that we're seeing from Prime Video in a lot of their emerging countries as well. So, good quarter. We'll continue to work again on cost structure and growing those businesses country by country. On the grocery part, what I would say is we continue to progress there.\n\nWe have an interesting grocery business where we've been in it for a while and we have actually quite a large grocery business. It's just an unusual selection grocery business, very much like how the mass merchandisers got into grocery 25, 30 years ago, where the selection are items that are not temperature-controlled, so it's canned goods and packaged food and paper products and pet supplies and personal care and health and beauty and all sorts of consumables. And interestingly, in this current environment where consumers are being cautious about what they spend and finding ways to trade down in different product variations, consumables have stayed very, very strong. And so, we continue to be very pleased with that part of our grocery business to serve a much broader number of the grocery shopping journeys, which we seek to try to help customers with." metadata={'source': 'data/Amazon.txt', 'company': 'Amazon.txt'}
