Revenue Performance: Apple achieved all-time revenue records across wearables, home, and accessories, with $8.8 billion in revenue. Services also set an all-time record with $20.9 billion in revenue for the March quarter, reaching even more people with their lineup of services.

Product or Service Updates: Apple Watch Ultra is attracting adventurers, athletes, and everyday users with its breakthrough features built for endurance and exploration. AirPods are the best and most popular headphones in the world, making them the perfect companion for summer travel.

Apple TV+ Programming: Apple TV+ continues to release new series and movies, including Shrinking, the Big Door Prize, Ted Lasso, Tetris, and upcoming Martin Scorsese’s Killers of the Flower Moon. Apple TV+ programming has received over 1,450 nominations and more than 350 wins. The Boy, the Mole, the Fox and the Horse won an Academy Award for best animated short film. Apple TV+ has a partnership with Major League Soccer, offering subscribers the ability to watch every match with no blackouts. Apple TV+ subscribers can also watch baseball games with the return of Friday night baseball.

Environmental Sustainability: Apple's global manufacturing partners now support over 13 gigawatts of renewable energy, a nearly 30% increase in just the last year. Apple's efforts have resulted in 17.4 million metric tons of avoided carbon emissions, equivalent to removing nearly 3.8 million cars from the road. Apple is investing up to an additional $200 million in their restore fund to support nature-based carbon removal projects. Apple aims to be carbon-neutral across their supply chain and the lifecycle of their devices by 2030. Apple plans to have all Apple designed batteries include 100% certified recycled cobalt by 2025 and eventually use only recycled and renewable materials in their products.

Emerging Markets: Apple saw record-breaking performance in emerging markets, including South Asia, India, Latin America, and the Middle East, contributing to the success of iPhone revenue in the March quarter.
